[Browser Rendering] Guide for PDF Rendering from HTML and CSS (#17510)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/browser-rendering/how-to/pdf-generation.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Generate PDFs Using HTML and CSS
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Aside } from "~/components";

> As seen in the [Getting Started guide](/browser-rendering/get-started/screenshots/), Browser Rendering can be used to generate screenshots for any given URL. Alongside screenshots, we can also generate full PDF documents for a given webpage, and can also provide the webpage markup and style ourselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As seen in the [Getting Started guide](/browser-rendering/get-started/screenshots/), Browser Rendering can be used to generate screenshots for any given URL. Alongside screenshots, you can also generate full PDF documents for a given webpage, and can also provide the webpage markup and style ourselves.
```

## Prerequisites

1. Use the `create-cloudflare` CLI to generate a new Hello World Cloudflare Worker script:

```sh
npm create cloudflare@latest -- browser-worker
```

2. Install `@cloudflare/puppeteer`, which allows you to control the Browser Rendering instance:

```sh
npm install @cloudflare/puppeteer --save-dev
```

> 3. Add our Browser Rendering binding to your new `wrangler.toml` configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add your Browser Rendering binding to your new `wrangler.toml` configuration:
```

    <style>
      html,
      body,
      #container {
        width: 100%;
        height: 100%;
        margin: 0;
      }
      body {
        font-family: Baskerville, Georgia, Times, serif;
        background-color: #f7f1dc;
      }
      strong {
        color: #5c594f;
        font-size: 128px;
        margin: 32px 0 48px 0;
      }
      em {
        font-size: 24px;
      }
      #container {
        flex-direction: column;
        display: flex;
        align-items: center;
        justify-content: center;
        text-align: center;
      }
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="container">
      <em>This is to certify that</em>
      <strong>${name}</strong>
      <em>has rendered a PDF using Cloudflare Workers</em>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
`;
};
```

This example HTML document should render a beige background imitating a certificate showing that the user-provided name has successfully rendered a PDF using Cloudflare Workers.

<Aside>
	It’s usually best to avoid directly interpolating user-provided content into
	an image or PDF renderer in production applications. To render contents like
	an invoice, it wold be best to validate the data input, and fetch data

> 	yourself using tools like [D1](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1) or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	yourself using tools like [D1](/d1/) or
```

> 	[Workers KV](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers-kv).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	[Workers KV](/kv/).
```

> </Aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::
```

> ## Step Two: Load HTML and CSS Into Browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Load HTML and CSS Into Browser
```

> Now that we have our fully-styled HTML document, we can take the contents and send it to our browser instance. We can create an empty page to store this document as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have your fully styled HTML document, you can take the contents and send it to your browser instance. Create an empty page to store this document as follows:
```

```ts
const browser = await puppeteer.launch(env.BROWSER);
const page = await browser.newPage();
```

> The [`page.setContent()`](https://github.com/cloudflare/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api/puppeteer.page.setcontent.md) function can then be used to set the page's HTML contents from a string, so we pass in our created document directly like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`page.setContent()`](https://github.com/cloudflare/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api/puppeteer.page.setcontent.md) function can then be used to set the page's HTML contents from a string, so you can pass in your created document directly like so:
```

```ts
await page.setContent(document);
```

> ## Step Three: Generate and Return PDF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Generate and Return PDF
```

> With your Browser Rendering instance now rendering our provided HTML and CSS, you can use the [`page.pdf()`](https://github.com/cloudflare/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api/puppeteer.page.pdf.md) command to generate a PDF file and return it to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your Browser Rendering instance now rendering your provided HTML and CSS, you can use the [`page.pdf()`](https://github.com/cloudflare/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api/puppeteer.page.pdf.md) command to generate a PDF file and return it to the client.
```

> With our Browser Rendering instance now rendering our provided HTML and CSS, we can use the [`page.pdf()`](https://github.com/cloudflare/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api/puppeteer.page.pdf.md) command to generate a PDF file and return it to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your Browser Rendering instance now rendering our provided HTML and CSS, you can use the [`page.pdf()`](https://github.com/cloudflare/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api/puppeteer.page.pdf.md) command to generate a PDF file and return it to the client.
```

```ts
let pdf = page.pdf({ printBackground: true });
```

> The `page.pdf()` call supports a [number of options](https://github.com/cloudflare/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api/puppeteer.pdfoptions.md), including setting the dimensions of the generated PDF to a specific paper size, setting specific margins, and allowing fully-transparent backgrounds. For now, we’re only overriding the `printBackground` option to allow our `body` background styles to show up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `page.pdf()` call supports a [number of options](https://github.com/cloudflare/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api/puppeteer.pdfoptions.md), including setting the dimensions of the generated PDF to a specific paper size, setting specific margins, and allowing fully-transparent backgrounds. For now, you are only overriding the `printBackground` option to allow your `body` background styles to show up.
```

> Now that we have our PDF data, it’s just a matter of returning it to the client in the `Response` with an `application/pdf` content type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have your PDF data, return it to the client in the `Response` with an `application/pdf` content type:
```

      }
      strong {
        color: #5c594f;
		font-size: 128px;
		margin: 32px 0 48px 0;
      }
	  em {
		font-size: 24px;
	  }
      #container {
		flex-direction: column;
        display: flex;
        align-items: center;
        justify-content: center;
		text-align: center
      }
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="container">
		<em>This is to certify that</em>
		<strong>${name}</strong>
		<em>has rendered a PDF using Cloudflare Workers</em>
	</div>
  </body>
</html>
`;
};

export default {
	async fetch(request, env) {
		const { searchParams } = new URL(request.url);
		let name = searchParams.get("name");

		if (!name) {
			return new Response("Please provide a name using the ?name= parameter");
		}

		const browser = await puppeteer.launch(env.BROWSER);
		const page = await browser.newPage();

		// Step 1: Define HTML and CSS
		const document = generateDocument(name);

		// // Step 2: Send HTML and CSS to our browser
		await page.setContent(document);

		// // Step 3: Generate and return PDF
		const pdf = await page.pdf({ printBackground: true });

		return new Response(pdf, {
			headers: {
				"content-type": "application/pdf",
			},
		});
	},
};
```

> We can run this script to test it using Wrangler’s `--remote` flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run this script to test it using Wrangler’s `--remote` flag:
```

```sh
npx wrangler@latest dev --remote
```

> With our script now running, we can pass in a `?name` parameter to the local URL (such as `http://localhost:8787/?name=Harley`) and we should see the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your script now running, you can pass in a `?name` parameter to the local URL (such as `http://localhost:8787/?name=Harley`) and should see the following:
```

![A screenshot of a generated PDF, with the author’s name shown in a mock certificate.](~/assets/images/browser-rendering/pdf-generation.png).

---

> Dynamically generating PDF documents solves a number of common use-cases, from invoicing customers to archiving documents to creating dynamic certificates (as seen in our simple example here).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamically generating PDF documents solves a number of common use-cases, from invoicing customers to archiving documents to creating dynamic certificates (as seen in the simple example here).
```
